So in this lecture we want to finish everything off.
There's a lot of things to do here.
We've got to keep track of the score.
We've got to restart the game if that happens there's just all sorts of things that we want to do.
We want to get that dizzie face to show up if Alson coin man runs into something so the first one is
let's work on the score.
So let's just go ahead and add a new event up at the top that we'll just call score and we'll set that
equal to zero gain.
And the basic idea is that we are going to update this every time.
Coin man runs into a coin.
So rather than log something about the coin we're going to say score plus plus.
So that we are upping that the next thing that we want to do is you might have noticed this but if you
run into a coin you're going to be overlapping it for a while.
So we actually want to get rid of the coin if we run into it.
So we're going to have to go to all our coin arrays which we have coin rectangles.
And in this case we'd want to do not remove that position.
I would also want to do something for the coin X's remove that position and same thing for coin wise
remove position.
So that kind of removes the coin so it doesn't show up again and then you know we won't collide with
it over and over and over again.
And the other thing is we don't want to have the chance to keep going through this for loop.
We just want to completely leave this for loop and so we can actually do that with something called
a break.
It just jumps us out of this for a loop and then comes down and checks this for loop below OK.
So that's the way that we can take the score.
But then the question becomes well how do we get our score to show up.
So let's go ahead and scroll up to the top here.
We are going to add something called a bitmap font.
And so this is going to allow us to display some text on the screen.
We just want to show the score.
And so let's go ahead and type out bit map font and I'll just go ahead and call this font.
Now with this in place inside of our create method this is where we want to then get the bitmap font
all set up and there's a couple of things you want to do.
So the first one is just create this new bitmap font so there's a new bitmap font just like that.
Then once we have that in place we want to set a color on that.
So we're going to say font set color and we are ultimately looking to do a white color.
I think that will show up pretty nice.
Now you can choose whatever color you like.
Then once we have that in place with this font we are going to go ahead and set a certain size for it.
So to do that we're going to say get data datt set the scale and you can play around with what you think
is great.
I think 10 is a good position to be in.
So with that in place now we have to go ahead and actually draw this font on the screen just like we've
drawn the textures and everything else.
So we'll come here at the bottom after we've added any sort of score updates and stuff.
And this is where we want to draw the score so we're going to save Fonte dot draw and we're going to
have to put in some information here so the first thing that we got to pass pass and it's a little bit
different than we do the front draw right because usually it's the batched draw.
But in this case is font's thought draw and we pass in the batch then the next thing is we have to say
what string it is that we want to show up.
So we're going to say string value of so that we can turn the score and into a string.
So we'll just put a score there and then we've got to say you know where it is we want the x and y position
of this to be so we're going to say 100 and 200.
This will put it in the bottom left corner of the screen and feel free to play around with that one.
However you'd like to you know get this to work for you.
So we'll go ahead and give this a second to run
emulator here and look at that.
We've got this nice score at the bottom.
And you know as we gather more and more coins boom you know we get that number updating.
Pretty great stuff.
Now the next biggest issue for us is that we're not seeing the game.
And whenever we run into those Bobs.
So we've got to figure out how to fix that.
So what we need to do is when we run into a bomb which we already have the code for that right here
we need to make it so that as soon as that happens we can end the game.
Now in order to end the game we have to introduce a new concept called game state.
So we're going to scroll up to the top and we are going to make a new ENT called the game state and
this is going to represent you know what state the game is and we're going to have a couple of different
options here.
But I'd like to go and have them all sort of list it out.
So let's go down to our render method here.
And I'm just going to do an if statement where I say first if game state is equal to 1.
This means we are in sort of the normal game like coin man will say something like a game is live right
like he's jumping in trying to get coins we're counting the score.
All that good stuff.
And then we're going to do an LCF to see if the game state is equal to zero.
So in this situation of game state I misspelled game state and we go and I'll have to come back and
fix this be a big deal there you go.
Now if game state is equal to zero that's for us is going to represent if you know we're in a starting
position for this game.
And so that's going to be waiting to start.
OK.
And then our last else if is going to check and see if game state is equal to 2.
And this is the game over situation.
OK.
So these are different situations that we have here and we've got to you know update the game appropriately
so while we're waiting for the game to start.
If the user taps on the screen that we want to kick it into game state 1 and then if the in game state
1 and they run into a bomb and we want to move it to two and if they're in two and they hit you know
tap the screen again we want to get them back into one sort of this flow that's going to be happening
here.
So let's go ahead and start first with making it so that when we hit a bomb we are going to update that
game state to be too.
So we'll just type out here.
Game state is equal to two.
But then we have to actually make some real decisions about what sort of code goes in for game state
one game state 0.
And let me go ahead and talk about first let's get inside of your game state zero.
So this is just waiting you know for the user to start the game.
And so what we're going to do inside of here is look for a touch screen and say hey if they touch the
screen we want to go get the game rolling here.
So we'll do our GDX that input just touched.
So tell us whether or not they just touch the screen and if they did very simple move here and just
say game state you're equal to one.
All right.
Only one equal sign on that.
There we go.
Now the next thing that I want to do is for game state one so if the game is live what things should
we have going on that.
Well we definitely want the bomb in the coin situation going on right.
Like we want there to be coins and bombs appearing if the game's over.
We're waiting to start.
We don't want those coming across the screen so I'm going to cut those and paste that right inside there.
We've also got some other code here about the velocity of our little do and all this stuff.
And I think we should include all of this so let's go ahead and grab all this with velocity and man
why we'll cut this and put this into our top game one game state equal to one situation.
Now the rest of this you know we always want to be detecting for coins and bomb situations we always
want to draw out the dude.
So this we can actually just leave here at the bottom this doesn't have to be necessarily any of the
game states but then does bring up the question of what happens when the game is over.
And essentially what we want to do here is we just want to reset everything we want to get back to a
starting position.
So what we're going to do is just sort of roll through and see OK if they're in this game over state
and they you know suddenly touch the screen.
So for example let's go ahead and just copy paste this.
Yes we want games to be won but there's a whole lot of things that we want to reset.
So the first one is the man y position.
So I'm going to scroll up to when we said Man why here just going to copy this code and we'll come and
paste it.
There we go.
Another situation that we want to do.
We want to reset the scores for say scores equal to zero velocity.
Yeah we should go ahead zero.
Basically anything we have we need to go.
Cleared all all out for all the coin.
It's got to do lower case here coin X's we should say.
Clear on those coin wise.
Want to go ahead and clear those out.
Also the coin rectangles and another thing to clear and then also the coin count.
We are going to set that equal to zero and so many things to do.
Now those four things that we just had for the coins we should also do for the bombs.
So we're going to go ahead and pay that down.
But just change this to be bomb x.
Bomb wise bomb rectangles and bomb count.
OK.
So that should get us a good place to sort of start there.
Now with all of this in place let's go ahead and see what we've got.
You know we've hopefully made it so that when the game first starts up our little dude is just going
to be hanging there.
And then once the user starts interacting then that's the situation where we're going to get things
going.
So go ahead and oh look it already opened up and like he's ready to go soon as I touch the screen boom
We are live and let me grab a coin there.
Oh you look that.
And boom I hit a bomb.
So I had you know shows my score three and if I hit this again.
Look at that.
I'm back alive and out here running around.
So we're actually really really close here.
Just really the last thing that I'd like to do is make it so that when we run into a bomb that we show
a little bit of like a dizzied face on coin man here.
Remember we brought in that image.
Let's go ahead and look at that.
This dizzy one I think that would just make our game that much cooler like the user sort of understands.
Oh the game's over it's not just like you know it's frozen and things aren't moving forward anymore.
So what we want to do then is we go ahead and give ourselves some space when we are coming down to draw
coin man we have to make a decision about whether or not we're in the game overstate or not.
And so we are going to say here if game state is equal to two you know it's a game over situation and
we want coin man oh.
The beach ball of death here.
I don't know what was up with that.
Hopefully we can survive here.
All right.
So if we get if we're in game state too that's where you'd want to do the dizzy guy and then the situation
that's actually where we'd want to copy cut and paste this line are actually going to cut that and paste
that down below.
So then it's here this is where we want to write the situation of you know we want to drive the dizzy
dude instead of one of these.
The man in the man state.
So go ahead and just type out here Bache dot draw and rather than doing man state we have to have a
texture for that disease situation.
So we're going to come up to the top and make a new texture.
We are going to call dizzie
as we go.
And let me go ahead and stop the game so that doesn't destroy the computer here and we're going to say
dizzie should be equal to in New texture and we're going to have that be the Disney one does PLG I believe
that was the correct name.
Let's go ahead and check that dizzie one.
OK.
So make sure we put our semi-colon there.
But with that in place we should be able to come down here and say dizzie And now we have to go ahead
and put the positions in it's actually just going to be the exact same of what we had over here because
you know we still want coin man to be in the same place.
We just want to show the desi coin man and some of the other ones so it seems like usually better if
I copy and paste from the left side so go ahead and grab that pasted in.
And this should be the final step for us so let's go ahead and test out our game big moment of truth
here.
And here we go.
So coin man flopping around getting some coins.
Doo doo doo doo doo doo doo.
All right now let's run into a bomb boom.
I clicked through it accidentally.
OK.
Now when you want to hit a bomb you can't oh here we go.
So I hit it like that we got the dizzy look all around his face.
But as soon as we tap again we're back into a fun live mode.